= Changelog

== 0.4.2 (2010-01-22)

Enhancements:

  * Implemented Node#scrub! for scrubbing subtrees.
  * Implemented NodeSet#scrub! for scrubbing a set of subtrees.
  * Document.text now only serializes <body> contents (ignores <head>)
  * <head>, <html> and <body> added to the HTML5lib whitelist.

Bug fixes:

  * Supporting Rails apps that aren't loading ActiveRecord. GH #10

Miscellaneous:

  * Mailing list is now loofah@librelist.com / http://librelist.com
  * IRC channel is now \#loofah on freenode.

== 0.4.1 (2009-11-23)

Bugfix:

  * Manifest fixed. Whoops.

== 0.4.0 (2009-11-21)

Enhancements:

  * Scrubber class introduced, allowing development of custom scrubbers.
  * Added support for XML documents and fragments.
  * Added :nofollow HTML scrubber (thanks Luke Melia!)
  * Built-in scrubbing methods refactored to use Scrubber.

== 0.3.1 (2009-10-12)

Bug fixes:

* Scrubbed Documents properly render html, head and body tags when serialized.

== 0.3.0 (2009-10-06)

Enhancements:

* New ActiveRecord extension `xss_foliate`, a drop-in replacement for xss_terminate[http://github.com/look/xss_terminate/tree/master].
* Replacement methods for Rails's helpers, Loofah::Rails.sanitize and Loofah::Rails.strip_tags.
* Official support (and test coverage) for Rails versions 2.3, 2.2, 2.1, 2.0 and 1.2.

Deprecations:

* The methods strip_tags, whitewash, whitewash_document, sanitize, and
  sanitize_document have been deprecated. See DEPRECATED.rdoc for
  details on the equivalent calls with the post-0.2 API.

== 0.2.2 (2009-09-30)

Enhancements:

* ActiveRecord extension scrubs fields in a before_validation callback
  (was previously in a before_save)

== 0.2.1 (2009-09-19)

Enhancements:

* when loaded in a Rails app, automatically extend ActiveRecord::Base
  with html_fragment and html_document. GH #6 (Thanks Josh Nichols!)

Bugfixes:

* ActiveRecord scrubbing should generate strings instead of Document or
  DocumentFragment objects. GH #5
* init.rb fixed to support installation as a Rails plugin. GH #6
  (Thanks Josh Nichols!)

== 0.2.0 (2009-09-11)

* Swank new API.
* ActiveRecord extension.
* Uses Nokogiri's Document and DocumentFragment for parsing.
* Updated html5lib codes and tests to revision 1384:b9d3153d7be7.
* Deprecated the Dryopteris sanitization methods. Will be removed in 0.3.0.
* Documentation! Hey!

== 0.1.2 (2009-04-30)

* Added whitewashing -- removal of all attributes and namespaced nodes. You know, for microsofty HTML.

== 0.1.0 (2009-02-10)

* Birthday!
